[communal present]

After "That"
By MARGENTO (based on #GraphPoem @ DHSI 2023 data-commoning corpus evolution at singularity)

I. “A bridge slowly eroding its sonic-meaning banks towards a topological earthquake…”

behind a paywall—the rock ’n’ roll of alt, control,
and op—hot flows of that that’s free to fall out

of range shaped by the dead standing in lines, an errant
sort, going here and there—we owe to rust…

to urns—a dance of antlers and romance—home for
the magi with soft orbs—in splendid traffic amps—

a screen, that one, not born to be screened—for ever-
Ything is made of everything—


II. “Caught in the resonance of the singularity’s eigenmodes—lifted by the company I kept…” 

The narrow paths, the always hollow paths—
all holo-hosomichi, narrow roads to the int-
εr®iOr—back roads to far towns—blank moans
under the moony money smog—about comp-
let(h)eℕess: that is a φRAGment—misMAGne(τ)ment—like every-
thing else…—the glimmers of our world: the river 

crow sp®eading its wide blue wings in the drowning shade—ex-
tinct already, soon—we read, reach—I’m—
time’s smothered thyme the realm of writing been never so ex-
tens(€)ive before—now everybody pub-
£[EA]shes at least one tεxτ a day—the fire in the mir[€]-
(or)ror: the one returning, all body and tides—

they come and go like “ghosts”—“like poetry”—the stream
that lived up to its name—the pebbles crystal clear or 
glimmering like red gems—if green, brilliantly green—
and clean and safe and all that sheen—stifled a groan—when
the water rose to a dangerous level—like the auras—of photo(ℕ)
graphs—by the way (the byway) I came—info-whirls

but no words—just Gellu’s murmurs—blue lions’ sigh & 
no water in sight		jusque the night of sãndzã curdled 
à vos reins, à vos ruines, on your rumps, on your ruins—
to tell no seeing what… breath, breath
can’t stop—deep, muffled gasps—blackness lengthens—
the mere thought of touch—tongue breaks,

blood-rush drums in ears, green, greener than grass—I am—
the uncut hair of graves—that place—you women, I make
my way with those deceased whales floating above—
stern, acrid, large—keeping silent with a death tongue—
shaking, trembling, shimmying in shortcut-overflow traffic
I dare not withdraw till I deposit what has 

so long accumulated in the bin—
that—place—of blankness—that—place—of plenitude &
unsortable refuse to me seems like a god—
no objects, nothing and nobody left standing in the way—
uprising, sunrise, rise out of me—a god, that guy who-
ever he is, if ever—whatever… being—

the Φire of Δε$ire—a cantiga do Infinito numa capoeira—quod-
lib®et[to] liber of libations escala fosca
unbinding my feet to pour out a millennium’s poisons del desig
钗环典质浮沧海 no té baran trying to 
invert terms with alter®est DSstat($)ed U-stores úd gʷreh₂ niori al(£)-
ter®ed $ta($)tes for—verbina, aurariu, armu-

darling—rariu, gone—vruta a mea yirghină—
you are—city-temple we’re lost in our way to get around
different—same river the song our own no(i)-noise-on poise—



[communal futures]

#GraphPoem Post-Singularity
programmed by MARGENTO [based on network neighbours of the only poem that made it through the corpus transition at singularity] 

Parting from my children as I left the border at Jade Gate.
Unbinding my feet to pour out a millennium’s poisons,
I arouse the spirit of women, hundreds of flowers, abloom.
Oh, this poor handkerchief made of merfolk-woven silk,
Lacking but little of death do I seem.
He seems like the gods’ equal, that man, who
ever he is, who takes his seat so close
across from you, and listens raptly to
your lilting voice
and lovely laughter, which, as it wafts by,
Their tails whip the sand. In the air, a mane floats within reach of your lips. Three yellow-eyed lionesses have arched their spine well, but against the wind brushing the earth, not the large absent limb you bite in your dream. A white rafter holds the night.
*
Obscure lions in hallways, but where do they go? Light, the lions under the waterfalls, pounded white, their bones, their flesh tossed to the world, the foam of lions. They're startled by the persistence of their thirst, by the gazelle that laughs in her sleep, by the girl from the sky with lead fangs.
*
Copper lions, bracelets of bone, and the nabules tintinabulating at nightfall. The black hunter strings his harp into the morning. The sky is high, the bird from the water flies like a lion. Cargos of roses, trains of dust, the harp is stringed and the lion no longer has a shadow. Trains of dust, copper blood.
*
Her genius and her glory are her own.


Have bigger hearts than this new teacher in town.
At the pomegranate grove, why don’t I let him down—-
how’s ‘bout he walks some fifteen dogs’ grins?
The beauty and the glorious art of Greece.
Sprung from the blood of Israel's scatter'd race,
At a mean inn in German Aarau born,
To forms from antique Greece and Rome uptorn,
I turned back to our campsite beside the Hill.
He curses again: just my luck, just my luck.
The older man has heard enough. My dogs
have bigger hearts than this new teacher in town.
At the pomegranate grove, why don’t I let him down—-
how’s ‘bout he walks some fifteen dogs’ grins?


While he raves about the cobra, spitting as he speaks.
You’re making too much of what you saw, dear.
They only took a snake out of a sack.
The glimmers of the wolf, glowing she-wolves—a dogwood barks in their joint song.
*
Rock or heather. The glimmers of the roosters. Desire ruffles the crests, the countryside and its moons.
*
The glimmers of vines: wrestlers bound by their lion spirit, their spears and their indigo blue.
*
The sun and moon without light. Sky and earth in darkness.
Who can uplift the sinking world of women?
I pawned my jewels to sail across the open seas,
parting from my children as I left the border at Jade Gate.
I dare not withdraw till I deposit what has so long accumulated within me.
Through you I drain the pent-up rivers of myself,
In you I wrap a thousand onward years,
On you I graft the grafts of the best-beloved of me and America,


Copper lions, bracelets of bone, and the nabules tintinabulating at nightfall. The black hunter strings his harp into the morning. The sky is high, the bird from the water flies like a lion. Cargos of roses, trains of dust, the harp is stringed and the lion no longer has a shadow. Trains of dust, copper blood.
*
At noon, the lions are a speck of sand. At noon, the lions are smoke rings, rafts of light, hedges of lace, mirages of salt and emerald. At noon, the lions have closed their eyes to the expectation of night that will see them standing tall and tamed and licking your stomach—-the night of blood curdled on your rumps, on your ruins.
*
But in the dream of the lionesses, one or one thousand is all the same. Everything roars, everything falls silent; the dawn does not lift a breath. What was that zebra called again?
Her breast-cloth flew off, her gold trinkets rang.
In laughter both banks erupted as one,
but at the sight of those women, a pang
rose in my chest, and I stifled a groan.
Still, that pleasant stream lived up to its name:
As in the Inao, the girls’ worship done,
Glimmers of fire in the mirror: the auburn one returning, all body and tides.
*
Glimmers of fear: like a necklace dangling between your breasts, snapped by the night's shrill cry.
*
Glimmers of dawn, a barbed dance. Glimmer of the trees—-we must leave.
*
Serenely with their bowls set out for alms.
All day until the market ebbs
a shop-woman will stretch the truth,
while from around the temple ring the sounds...

